# VintageNet

## Overview

Nerves uses [VintageNet](https://hexdocs.pm/vintage_net) to manage network
interfaces. VintageNet takes human-readable network configuration descriptions
and transforms them into instructions for the Linux kernel, network daemons and
other IP networking code whether it's in Elixir, Erlang, or C.

A second important feature of VintageNet is to monitor network interfaces for
internet-connectivity and failures. It automatically switches between network
interfaces to prioritize fast and inexpensive interfaces like wired Ethernet,
but fall back to slower interfaces like cellular connections when necessary.

## Technologies

`VintageNet` serves as the configuration tooling for various networking
technologies, such as Ethernet and WiFi, which must be included as a dependency
in your project alongside `:vintage_net`

There are many officially supported technologies, or you can implement your own
with the `VintageNet.Technology` behavior:

* [VintageNetWiFi](https://hexdocs.pm/vintage_net_wifi)
* [VintageNetEthernet](https://hexdocs.pm/vintage_net_ethernet)
* [VintageNetDirect](https://hexdocs.pm/vintage_net_direct) (most typically USB)
* [VintageNetQMI](https://hexdocs.pm/vintage_net_qmi) (cellular)

## Connecting WiFi

Some technologies, such as `VintageNetWiFi` provide convenience functions for
quick configurations at runtime. Use the inputs below to specify your SSID and
password.

If you haven't connected already, checkout [Configure WiFi](configure_wifi.livemd)

## Properties

`VintageNet` maintains a key/value store for networking information. This can
be queried and subscribed to for changes. For example, the overall network
connection (internet-connected, lan-connected or disconnected) is stored under
the `"connection"` key:

```elixir
VintageNet.get(["connection"])
```

This notebook only shows a fraction of properties. For a more complete
reference, see
[VintageNet#Properties](https://hexdocs.pm/vintage_net/readme.html#properties)).

Network interface-specific keys are scoped by interface name. I.e.,
`["interface", interface_name, ..]`.  This shows the IP addresses on an
interface. If you're connected via a USB cable, replace `"wlan0"` with
`"usb0"`.  For wired Ethernet, use `"eth0"`. The addresses are all on Erlang
tuple form and can be converted to familiar strings using `:inet.ntoa/1`.

```elixir
VintageNet.get(["interface", "wlan0", "addresses"])
```

Each VintageNet technology has its own set of properties and these are
documented in the corresponding library. For Wifi, see [VintageNetWiFi's
property
documentation](https://hexdocs.pm/vintage_net_wifi/readme.html#properties).

Sometimes it's helpful to browse all keys using `VintageNet.get_by_prefix/1`:

```elixir
VintageNet.get_by_prefix(["interface", "wlan0"])
```

### Bonus

Since VintageNet uses `:ets` under the hood to store properties, Livebook can
render them as a nice table:

```elixir
Kino.ETS.new(VintageNet)
```

## Property subscriptions

Polling these properties for changes is not ideal so `VintageNet` supports
property subscriptions.

If your device supports WiFi, the following subscribes to the known list of
access points, starts a scan going and then waits for the first update.

```elixir
key = ["interface", "wlan0", "wifi", "access_points"]
VintageNet.subscribe(key)

VintageNet.scan("wlan0")

receive do
  {VintageNet, ^key, _old_value, aps, meta} ->
    IO.inspect(aps, label: "Access Points from Scan")
    IO.inspect(meta, label: "Event meta")
end

VintageNet.unsubscribe(key)
```

### Bonus

Graph the available WiFi networks around you based on their frequency band and signal percentage 👇

```elixir
alias VegaLite, as: Vl

VintageNet.scan("wlan0")

widget =
  Vl.new(title: "2.4 GHz", width: 300)
  |> Vl.encode_field(:x, "channel", title: "Channel")
  |> Vl.encode_field(:y, "signal_percent", title: "Signal Percent", sort: :descending)
  |> Vl.encode_field(:color, "ssid", title: "SSID")
  |> Vl.mark(:circle, tooltip: [:signal_percent])
  |> Kino.VegaLite.new()
  |> tap(&Kino.render/1)

Kino.VegaLite.periodically(widget, 30000, 0, fn i ->
  aps =
    VintageNet.get(["interface", "wlan0", "wifi", "access_points"])
    |> Enum.filter(fn %{band: band} -> band == :wifi_2_4_ghz end)
    |> Enum.map(&Map.from_struct/1)

  Kino.VegaLite.clear(widget)
  Kino.VegaLite.push_many(widget, aps)

  # Initiate scan for next time
  VintageNet.scan("wlan0")
  {:cont, i + 1}
end)
```
